# Windows Users: Install Bash
-----

If you are a Windows user, please take this moment to download and install a bash shell.  

**Note:** This step is not needed for Mac computers, which have a built-in bash console called the Terminal.  Users of Linux and other Unix-like operating systems can also use their native command line prompt.

Our favorite bash shell for windows is Babun.  You can download [Babun here](http://babun.github.io).

Click on the Download button, extract the zip folder, double click the babun folder and run the install batch file. A black window will pop up to copy a number of files to your computer. This takes around five minutes so give it some time to fully install.

After installation completes, you should have the Babun command prompt running. If not, there should be a shortcut on the desktop where you can run Babun. Double click that shortcut. Whenever we ask you to use the command line in this class, please open Babun.

Now that we are looking at the Babun command line, type the command

```
pwd
```

This stands for print working directory.  It tells you where you are working in your computers file structure.


## Navigating to the Desktop

Often in this course, we will ask you to navigate to your desktop from the command line. You can navigate to your windows desktop through the Babun command line by typing the following command:

```
cd /c/Users/[your username]/Desktop
```

Here, the `cd` command stands for change directory.  We follow it with a file path, which specifies the location on your computer you want to move to.  

Remember this path! Anytime we ask you to navigate to the Desktop you will need to enter the above `cd` command in order to do so.

Once you execute the `cd` command, you may want to prove to yourself that you're really on your Desktop.  To do this, let's create a file in the Babun terminal and see if we can see it on the desktop.  Here's the bash command to create a new file:

```
touch test-babun.txt
```

You should now see the file `test-babun.txt` on your desktop. You can delete this file from your desktop by moving the file to the Recycling Bin.

You should be now all set up to use Babun for this class. 
